# VBA-challenge
  For this challenge, we were given a large dataset that covered the stock performance in the years 2018, 2019, and 2020. The objective was to reformat the data set using Excel VBA so that we could observe the different types of tickers, the yearly change of each ticker, the percent change from the difference between the opening and closing values, and the total stock volume of each ticker. 
  
  I want to mention that I give full credit to my instructor Drew for creating the VBA code because this was a fairly big challenge to overcome. The only changes I made to the code were that I took out dimensions that were not needed, meaning that they did not serve any purpose in the code itself. The dataset was LARGE, and I mean it had three sheets with over 700,000 rows each. Thankfully, I only added the screenshots of the completed dataset, and I attached the VBA script to a different file that can be opened in an editor like VS code. Nonetheless, this was a great experience because this is my very first time working with a dataset so large, and I can only hope that this will not be my last. 
  
  I will continue by briefly explaining the dataset. For the 2018 screenshot, you can observe on the right-hand side the additional columns that were added: Ticker, Yearly Change, Percent Change, and Total Stock Volume. Passing these additional columns, there is a section where the data shows which ticker had the greatest percent increase, greatest percent decrease, and the greatest total volume overall. The purpose of the ticker column was to see how many different tickers were present in the entire dataset. We can see that the yearly change column shows either a green positive increase or a red negative decrease. As for the percent change, the difference between the open and closed values was taken and divided by the open value to get the results. Meanwhile, the total stock volume is simply the sum of all the volumes of each ticker. You can see this display in each of the following years. 

  As for the actual code, we began by setting up our dimensions for the entire code. The dimensions varied from double, long, integers, and worksheets. The base of the entire code relies on a for loop that goes through each of the worksheets since there were three different years on completely different worksheets. We must first declare some of our variables at 0 since that is our starting place, but there is an exception to "start" since the first value of our data starts at the second row. To format our Excel sheet a bit, we created a code that formats the titles for each of the columns we will be occupying such as Ticker, Yearly Changes, Percent Change, etc. In order to make this code as efficient as possible, we need to create a variable that holds the value of the last row of each worksheet using an Excel function because manually inputting the last row number is not very effective and leaves too much room for error. That variable will be our "rowCount". Next up, we will include another for loop inside our first one, so that we can begin looping through each row of each column. We are starting off with finding out each one of our tickers through a conditional if-then statement. Actually, the if-then statement creates a result that gets stored in the variable "total", and "total" becomes an important factor in another if-then statement that allows us to find the values of columns I through L. From there, the else statement allows us to prevent errors from occurring if there are rows with a value of 0. In addition to error prevention, we are finding the percent change and formatting the values of each of the columns I through L. The "Select Case Change" allows us to showcase the yearly change with the green and red indicators depending if the value is greater than or less than 0 respectively. At the end of the inner if-then statement, we have to reassign the total, change, and columnIndex back to 0 in order to prevent the values from accumulating too much value. As for the last portion of the code, it is what determines the greatest percent increase, greatest percent decrease, and greatest total volume through using Excel built-in functions. 

  I once again would like to thank my instructor for guiding me through this challenge, and I hope that anyone that comes across this finds it interesting! Thank you for reading my README file. 
